Today's weekly review is review #8.
I'm happy because last week's review was a success, 100,000 people watched it,
This gives me and those who film and edit courage.
We're all doing DIY, but we do it as seriously as possible,
we are volunteers but it doesn't mean that we are amateurs.
So the success of this review is making my opponents very jealous,
which makes me leap for joy,
because they're supposed to be modern and I'm supposed to be archaic.
Well you can see who knows the era he lives in and who does not.
Speaking of people who don't understand the era they live in, I'll deal with two issues today: Mr Fillon and nuclear power.
What made me laugh about Mr Fillon was to see all these people being so surprised and astonished.
It's becoming a habit for them to be surprised. They always announce things that don't happen,
and when things happen the show goes on, they shout "how surprising it is!"
and "we did not predict what happened". Ok, but that's not the issue here
The issue is what is really happening in this country.
So there was a primary election, and what a surprise: rightwing people voted for the right.
Well that's not big news, it's normal.
Rightwing people voted for the right,
and within the right, an important component was more active than the rest and that voted for Mr Fillon.
Well I'm not supposed to comment on that, it's their business.
There's just one thing that struck me. Before the vote,
all the headlines said that Alain Juppé would win during a whole year, as they do with Emmanuel Macron.
There was no one but Juppé, everyone wanted him to be president, it was great etc.
News articles, polls and interviews saying that poured thick and fast,
and nothing else could happen, but in the end that's not what happened at all.
But before Sarkozy was eliminated, although that's not my business, what upset me was
that the champagne socialists wanted to vote for Juppé in order to prevent Sarkozy from winning...
This is a dishonnest attitude because it is the rightwing primary election.
To participate, you need to sign a paper that says you approve the rightwing values, and this is a dishonnest attitude.
This is a democratic election that concerns the right
and some lefties took part in the election and rigged it.
Apparently, 400,000 to 500,000 leftwing people - that's a lot -  voted and gave two euros to the Republicans' party
although it's not their party. They signed a charter that said they agreed with the values of the right, although it's not true,
and they did this just to prevent Mr Sarkozy from being in the second round of the right's election.
This was a scheme with a capital "S".
And now here we go again this week. Observers who woke up discovering Mr Fillon belonged to the right,
- this is big news I know - act as if Mr Juppé didn't.
Once again, they say "Come on, let's vote for Mr Juppé!" bla bla.
We had cynnical politicians who lied to everybody
and we now have cynical voters who lie to everybody, to themselves in particular.
They should be ashamed to rig an election.
So we had reached this point, but that's not all, because I just read that
Mr Montebourg just asked rightwing voters to take part in the Socialist Party's primary election
in order to help him to defeat François Hollande,
although he was a secretary in his government and still is a member of his party.
This is beyond imagination! Have you ever seen anything like that?
Leftwing people ask rightwing people to vote for them in order to help them defeat the outgoing President.
It's all the same to me. I intend to defeat them and to be in the second round whether it is the President or someone else.
But that's not the issue. The issue is about being honest and loyal. What does this all mean?
They pretend to organize a democratic election and to organize social life in a civilized way
and what do the organizers do? They use dirty tricks against one another
in order to rig their opponents' primary election.
Now it's up to you to think about what a primary is.
First, it is a social filter.
Those who vote in these elections are not only those who can pay two euros - that's not so expensive -
but more importantly those who live next to a polling station.
This means that those who usually vote for me won't vote because they live too far.
Second, this election is a rigging and falsifying machine,
and I won't stand as candidate in this election, for the reason that I won't acknowledge the election result.
Some say that if I stand as candidate I will win, well that's not a good reason!
Now people want to stand as candidate because they are sure to win. And what if you lose?
When you stand as candidate to an election, you're supposed to acknowledge the result.
If I lose in the 2017 election, I'll concede defeat. This is democracy.
I'll stand as candidate in order to serve my country,
and there's no way I stand in the Social Party's primary election.
There's no way I agree with the Socialist Party's rules of procedure.
You see my friends, I won't take part in their election, that's not of my business, and that's not yours either.
Now I'll tell you about something that you might not all agree with, but I have to.
The president of the French Nuclear Safety Authority stated that the situation of nuclear production was bad.
I think it is too.
I am not going to deal with economy here. Maybe I'll talk about it later.
Anyway the core of the problem is that nuclear energy is dangerous.
I'm not blaming those who built and worked in nuclear power plants,
and who have not caused any catastrophe for forty years.
They did their job well, but now we all know it is dangerous.
We may have not understood how dangerous it was, but now we all do.
There was the Chernobyl disaster, and the Three Miles Island accident before that,
and we saw there was a risk, and when it happened,the consequences were huge.
Even today, no one can live in the Chernobyl area,
and people still get cancers there because of atomic radiation.
And above all, there was the Fukushima disaster.
It really demonstrated that we needed to phase out nuclear energy.
Often, people make a fuss about it and say that it's not possible.
But I never said that phasing out nuclear energy was as easy as pushing a button.
We'll have to disassemble power plants, but we'll have to replace them with something else.
So we need to use new energy ressources, and I advocate that we be able to use renewable energy only by the year 2050.
I know it's not for tomorrow, but we have to start now, otherwise we talk without doing nothing,
like the Socialist Party, who had reached an agreement with the Environmentalist Party (EELV)
and now that the presidential term is almost over, nothing was done.
They did not even close the Fessenheim nuclear power plant!
Last week, I met some associations that are against nuclear power in the European Parliament.
They showed me a map of the East of France and asked me how come there were so many power plants in this region,
like the Fessenheim and Cattenom plants that are located near the eastern border.
There's also the future nuclear repository in Bure and another one right next to it.
This situation is becoming alarming. Why?
Because nuclear power plants are getting old, and our neighbors do not agree with this situation.
The Swiss and the Germans feel concerned about this, especially because the wind blows in their direction,
and they would suffer the consequences in case there was a problem.
So we understand that they feel nervous about this, and we feel nervous too.
The nuclear repositeries that we built are located in the Champagne region,
so imagine the economic consequences we'll face when we'll find cesium in Champagne wine.
This is really a horrible situation for our famous vineyards,
and the people who live there deserve better than living in France's nuclear trash bin.
I want you to know about this, we have to phase out nuclear energy.
If we agree on this we can get to work.
We won't do this in the blink of an eye: we have to start with the most dangerous plants,
and we have to begin with Fessenheim.
I'm telling you that everybody will not agree with me because a thousand people work there,
I understand that they worry about losing their jobs, I really do,
but if we close the Fessenheim power plant, we'll take care of those who work there
and their salary will be guaranteed until they are retired.
We'll make provisions for that, and it won't be difficult if we decide to do it.
I knew the government would do nothing about this situation because they did nothing for people in general.
We have to close this nuclear power plant because I think it is dangerous.
It's working now, I know that, but if an accident should happen it would be devastating,
it would be equivalent to the Chernobyl disaster.
It has only one formwork, and if there is an accident like the one in Chernobyl
there isn't any second formwork to prevent a catastrophe.
As to the pools in which we throw the nuclear waste, they're sometimes protected by a simple iron sheet roof.
We should be reasonable and start working on new energy ressources,
on wind and marine turbines more particularly.
Everyone knows that I prefer marine turbines. It might not be the easiest thing to do, but we should definitely work on that,
and if we decide to do that, the industry is already there.
There are not only big companies that produce marine turbines, like Alstom or an old Areva subcompany that
was sold to Spanish and German purchasers, there are also the equipment manufacturers that work with them.
It's not just about turbines, although they are important.
Our plan is ready, we can set turbines along the shores.
I'm not telling you that phasing out nuclear energy and starting using alternative ressources
is as simple as writing it on my political programme, and that promises only bind those who believe in them.
We really worked on this issue seriously. We know where to begin with and how to do it.
Today, I met the representatives of the association in charge of developping wind and marine turbines.
We are not political friends - I mean that's not the issue here - but we talked a lot about this.
There were a lot of other issues to think about this week,
but I was mostly concerned with alternative energy ressources and nuclear energy.
Besides, I had dinner with a great person on Tuesday, a scientist whose name is Jean-Marie Brom.
He is considered the Pope of nuclear energy - he won't like that nickname - and he really taught me a lot.
You know, when you want to learn about something, you can't just deal with economy and sociology,
you also need to deal with science if you want to know the risks and the assets of it.
It is interesting to see that a specialist of nuclear energy is against the fact that we keep developing this industry.
So the more we delay the decision, the more we'll make mistakes.
One day you'll remember what I just said, although I hope there won't be any accident.
I'm not here to frighten you, but I you have to think about this.
There were four debates during the primary election of the right,
and they did not talk even about ecology, climate change or energy ressources, not once,
and if they did, they just said stupid things like nuclear energy was the only energy we could use,
or that we should stop making preferential prices for alternative energy ressources.
They said this during the last debate. They did not think about this issue for one second!
They are not serious, they jeopardize the security of our country.
Our nuclear power plants are getting old,  and it is time that we use other ressources.
If they run this country, nothing will change!
Nothing will change until there is an accident. They are not concerned with reality and do nothing but spread propaganda.
I don't know if you read or remember "Les Misérables" by Victor Hugo.
You have to read it at least once in your life, and not just you the French!
In Venezuela, it was translated in Spanish, and Chavez used to read excerpts during his endless speeches.
Thousands of copies of "Les Misérables" were distributed to Venezuelans of all social classes.
It was very soul-stirring for a French to see that.
Anyway. The main character of "Les Misérables" is Jean Valjean.
In the novel, he is sent to a penal colony for stealing some bread, because he is extremely poor.
Everytime I talk about poverty, hard working conditions and the working poor,
about low-paid workers, about workers that are so ill-treated that they suffer from mental disorders
or even commit suicide sometimes, some people tell me that I'm using emotion too much.
There are nine million poor in this country, I don't think I'm using emotion too much.
Those who go too far are those who don't want to understand the problem of poverty.
I mean if you don't see what's going on it's really that you don't want to.
Do you remember this guy who stole bread and pastas and who was sentenced to two months' imprisonment?
I'm not saying that stealing is a good thing you know.
Anyway another guy was sentenced for stealing some goat cheese.
If you hear that someone stole some goat cheese, you see we are not dealing with a luxury goods thief.
The guy did not eat for several days and he was starving, so he stole some goat cheese.
I'm not saying people should steal, but there's a limit, don't you think?
The guy was starving and he stole some goat cheese, and he went to prison for that, can you imagine?
When I heard that I was angry. It's a modern version of Jean Valjean's story.
Then someone told me "Yes, but you know, the guy is a Morrocan, and he is an illegal immigrant".
So because he is a Moroccan and an illegal immigrant he should starve to death?
Is that what you want? People should think before they speak.
Every human being deserves respect, love, affection and solidarity.
Saying this does not amount to encouraging people to steal some goat cheese.
It makes people think about how such a situation is possible.
How come we don't see that so many people live in unbearable conditions?
How come we do nothing to change this situatiion? Think about this.
Some people have difficulties to understand that, and since it's difficult, it compels them to think.
And in the end, you'll always come to the same conclusion.
Are we talking about a human being or not? If we do, what should prevail?
Our compassion duty or something else? What else?
Now I'll conclude because I talk a lot and I was told the videos should not exceed twenty minutes.
If you liked this video give me the thumbs up, this makes my opponents furious.
It means that the staff and I did a good job.
Don't forget to subscribe to the channel, you just need to click on the link below.
When we see that the number of subscribers is growing, it makes us happy,
and in the end, maybe our opponents will be so jealous that they'll do the same.
Well, they should try, that's how we all make headway, right?